-# BUSINESS SOFTWARE SYSTEMS

# Online Store 

# Customer Relations Management

# Human Resources Management

## Personal Traits
* Leadership
* Intelligence
* Stability
* Negotiation ability
* Ability to Delegate
* Vision
* Understanding of the Organization
* Administrative Ability
* Technical dexterity
* Education
* Practical creativity
* Pleasant personality
* Analytical Ability
* Ability to manage
* Salesmanship
* Experience
* Honesty

## Belbin Team Roles

Research showed that the most successful teams were made up of a diverse mix of behaviours; they had access to all nine Belbin Team Roles. A Team Role was defined by Dr Meredith Belbin as "A tendency to behave, contribute and interrelate with others in a particular way". The value of Belbin Team Role theory lies in enabling an individual or team to benefit from selfknowledge and adjust according to the demands being made by the external situation.

The concept was derived from a study of successful and unsuccessful teams competing in
Business Games at Henley Management College, England. Managers taking part in the exercise
were given a battery of psychometric tests and put into teams of varying composition. As time
progressed different clusters of behaviour were identified as underlying the success of the teams. These successful clusters of behaviour were then given names. Hence the emergence of nine Team Roles shown with the distribution among British managers:[^fisher]

[^fisher]: S.G. Fisher, TA Hunter and WDK Macross, 1998. The distribution of Belbin team roles among UK managers. Personnel Review, Vol. 29 Iss 2 pp. 124 - 140
 

| Roles | | Belbin Types | |
|:------------------|:---------------:|:------:|:------:|
|Action-oriented: | Shaper | Implementer  | Completer Finisher|
| | 2.3% | 11.4% | 3.6% |
|------|-------|-------|-------|
|People-oriented: | Co-ordinator | Teamworker | Resource Investigator|
|  | 26.2% | 18.2% | 33.2% |
|Thinking-oriented: | Plant |Monitor  Evaluator | Specialist |
|   |  3.7% |  0.5% | 0.8% |
|------------------|---------------|

This doesn't mean that every team requires nine people! Most people will have two or three Team Roles that they are most comfortable with. Team Roles develop and mature. These may change with experience and conscious attention. Different Team Roles may come to the fore in response to the needs of particular situations.

| Role Description | Strengths |  Allowable weaknesses | Concerns |
|:---------------|:------------------|:--------------|:----------------|
| **Resource Investigator** | Outgoing, enthusiastic. | Might be over-optimistic, | They might forget |
| Uses their inquisitive nature | Explores opportunities |  and can lose interest | to follow up  |
| to find ideas to bring back  | and develops contacts. |  once the initial enthusiasm | on a lead. |
| to the team. | | has passed.  | | 
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------|
| **Teamworker** | Co-operative, perceptive | Can be indecisive in | They might hesitate | 
| Helps the team to gel, using their | and diplomatic. | crunch situations and | to make unpopular |
| versatility to identify the work |  Listens and |  tends to avoid  | decisions. |
| required and complete it on behalf |  averts friction. | confrontation.| |
| of the team.   |  | | |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------| 
| **Co-ordinator** | Mature, confident, | Can be seen as  |  They can over-delegate, |
| Needed to focus on the team's |  identifies talent. | manipulative and might | leaving themselves |
| objectives, draw out team members | Clarifies goals. | offload their own |
| and delegate work appropriately. | | share of the work. |  little work to do. |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------|
| **Plant**    | Creative, imaginative, | Might ignore incidentals, | They could be |
| Tends to be highly creative | free-thinking, | and may be too preoccupied | absent-minded |
| and good at solving problems | generates  ideas and |  to communicate effectively. | to forgetful. |
| in unconventional ways. |  solves difficult problems. | | |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------| 
| **Monitor Evaluator** | Sober, strategic |  Sometimes lacks the drive | They could be |
| Provides a logical eye, making |  and discerning.| and ability to inspire |  slow to come |
| impartial judgements where required | Sees all options and | others and can be | to decisions. |
| and weighs up the team's options |  judges accurately. | overly critical. | |
| in a dispassionate way. | | | |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------| 
| **Specialist** | Single-minded, | Tends to contribute | They can overload |
| Brings in-depth knowledge | self-starting  and dedicated. | on a narrow front |
| of a key area to the team. |  They provide specialist | and can dwell on the |  you with  technical|
| | knowledge and skills.|  technicalities.|  information. |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------| 
| **Shaper** |Challenging, dynamic, | Can be prone to |  They could risk |
| Provides the necessary drive | thrives on pressure. | provocation, and | becoming aggressive |
| to ensure that the team keeps |  Has the drive and | may sometimes offend | and bad-humoured in |
| moving and does not lose focus |  courage to overcome |  people's feelings. | their attempts to get |
| or momentum.|  obstacles. | | things done. |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------|
| **Implementer** | Practical, reliable,| Can be a bit inflexible |  They might be slow |
| Needed to plan a workable |  efficient. Turns ideas | and slow to respond |  to relinquish their |
| strategy and carry it out |  into actions and organises |  to new possibilities.|plans in favour of |
| as efficiently as possible. | work that needs to be done. | | positive changes.|
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------|
| **Completer Finisher** | Painstaking, conscientious, |  Can be inclined | They could be |
| Most effectively used at the |  anxious. | to worry unduly, |  accused of |
| end of tasks to polish and |  Searches out errors. |  and reluctant to |taking their |
| scrutinise the work for errors, |Polishes and perfects.|  delegate. |
| subjecting it to the highest | | |  perfectionism |
| standards of quality control. | | | to extremes. |
|---------------|------------------|--------------|----------------|

## Big 5 Behavioral Types

| Behavioral Characteristic | Low end | High end |
|----------------------|--------------|----------|
| **Openness to experience** | consistent, | inventive|
| Appreciation for art, emotion, adventure, unusual ideas| cautious | curious |
| curiosity, variety of experience and intellectual curiosity,| (Accountants) | (Artists) |
| creativity and a preference for novelty and variety.| | |
|---------------------------|-----------|-------------|
| **Conscientiousness** |  easy-going | efficient |
| A tendency to be organized and dependable, show | careless | organized |
| self-discipline, act dutifully, aim for achievement,| sloppy |stubborn |
| and prefer planned rather than spontaneous behavior. |(Graffiti artist) | (Engraver) |
|-------------------------|-----------|-------------|
| **Extraversion** | solitary | outgoing |
| Energy, positive emotions, surgency, assertiveness,| reserved | energetic |
| sociability and the tendency to seek stimulation |  shy | boisterous |
| in the company of others, talkativeness and is often| introvert | extravert |
| perceived as attention-seeking and domineering. | (Hermit) | (Cheerleader) |
|-------------------------|-----------|-------------|
| **Agreeableness** | challenging | friendly |
| A tendency to be compassionate and cooperative | detached | compassionate |
| rather than suspicious and antagonistic towards | rigid | helpful |
| others. It related to a trusting and helpful nature| (Prosecutor) | (Social worker) |
|-------------------------|-----------|-------------|
| **Neuroticism** |secure |sensitive |
| Neuroticism identifies certain people who are more| confident  | nervous |
| prone to psychological stress and a tendency to |  cool | explosive|
| experience unpleasant emotions easily. |(Air traffic controller) | (Drug addict)|
|-------------------------|-----------|-------------|

## Myers Briggs Test

The 16 personality types that were developed by Isabel Briggs Myers and Katharine Cook Briggs, which was built on the work of Carl Jung in the early 1900s. Based on the 4 dimensions of Carl Jung's theory of personality types:

| Dimension | Extremes |
|:-------------|:------------|
|Energizes | Extroversion (E) vs Internal (I)|
|Perceives information | Sensing (S) vs Intuitive (N)|
|Decision making| Thinking (T) vs Feeling (F)|
|World view | Judging (J) vs Perceiving (P)|
 
Myers Briggs Test has been administered to a large number of people helping to validate the value of this instrument for a number of applications. Generally successful workers tend to gravitate to specific careers based on their personality profile as shown in the next sections.[^tieger]

[^tieger]: Paul D. Tieger, Barbara Barron, Kelly Tieger, 2014.  Do What You Are: Discover the Perfect Career for You Through the Scecrets of Personality Type. Little, Brown and Company, 5th edition.
 
 
### Analysts:

* INTJ (2.1%) -  The Mastermind/The Scientist – Independent, original, analytical, and determined with an exceptional ability to turn theories into solid plans of action. Creative perfectionists who prefer to do things their own way, INTJs perform well in non-social roles that require them to think theoretically. Common careers: Investment banker, Personal financial advisor, Software developer, Economist, Executive

* INTP (3.3%) - The Thinker – Logical, original, creative thinkers. Can become very excited about theories and ideas. Independent and creative problem-solvers, INTPs gravitate toward roles that require them to be theoretical and precise. Common careers - Computer programmer, software designer, Financial analyst, Architect, College professor, Economist

* ENTJ (1.8%) - The Commander – Assertive and outspoken - they are driven to lead. Excellent ability to understand difficult organizational problems and create solid solutions. Natural leaders who are logical, analytical, and good strategic planners, ENTJs gravitate toward authoritarian roles that require them to be organized and efficient. Common careers: Executive, Lawyer, Market research analyst, Management consultant, Venture capitalist

* ENTP (3.2%) - The Debater – Creative, resourceful, and intellectually quick. Good at a broad range of things. Enterprising creative people who enjoy new challenges, ENTPs excel in risky roles that require them to be persistent and non-conformist.  Common careers: Entrepreneur, Real estate developer, Advertising creative director, Marketing director, Politician/political consultant

### Diplomats:

* INFJ (1.5%) - The Counselor/The Protector – Quietly forceful, original, and sensitive. Tend to stick to things until they are done. Thoughtful, creative people driven by firm principles and personal integrity, INFJs do well in behind-the-scenes roles that require them to communicate on a personal level. Common careers: Therapist/counsellor, Social worker, HR diversity manager, Organization development consultant, Customer relations manager

* INFP (4.4%) - The Idealist –  Quiet, reflective, and idealistic. Interested in serving humanity. Sensitive idealists motivated by their deeper personal values, INFPs excel in roles that require them to be compassionate and adaptable. Common careers: Graphic designer, Psychologist/therapist, Writer/editor, Physical therapist, HR development trainer

* ENFJ (2.5%) - The Giver – Popular and sensitive, with outstanding people skills. Externally focused, with real concern for how others think and feel. People-lovers who are energetic, articulate, and diplomatic, ENFJs excel in cooperative roles that require them to be expressive and logical. Common careers: Advertising executive, Public relations specialist, Corporate coach/trainer, Sales manager, Employment/HR specialist 

* ENFP (8.1%) - The Champion/The Inspirer – Enthusiastic, idealistic, and creative. Able to do almost anything that interests them. Curious and confident creative types who see possibilities everywhere, ENFPs perform well in expressive roles that require them to be alert and communicative. Common careers: Journalist, Advertising creative director, Consultant, Restaurateur, Event planner


### Sentinels

* ISTJ (11.6%) - The Inspector/The Duty Fulfiller  - Serious and quiet, interested in security and peaceful living. Hard workers who value their responsibilities and commitments, ISTJs excel in behind-the-scenes roles that require them to be reliable. Common careers: Auditor, Accountant, Chief financial officer, Web development engineer, Government employee


* ISFJ (13.8%) - The Nurturer/ – Quiet, kind, and conscientious, puts the needs of others above self-interest. Modest and determined workers who enjoy helping others, ISFJs do well in roles that require them to provide services to others without being in a position of authority. Common careers: Dentist, Elementary school teacher, Librarian, Franchise owner, Customer service representative

* ESTJ (8.7%) - The Supervisor/The Guardian –  Practical, traditional, and organized. Likely to be athletic. Realists who are quick to make practical decisions, ESTJs perform well in social roles that require them to lead. Common careers: Insurance sales agent, Pharmacist, Lawyer, Judge, Project manager

* ESFJ (12.3%) - The Provider/The Caregiver – Warm-hearted, popular, and conscientious. Tend to put the needs of others over self-interest. Gregarious traditionalists motivated to help others, ESFJs gravitate toward social roles that require them to care for the well-being of others. Common careers: Sales representative, Nurse/healthcare worker, Social worker, Public relations account executive, Loan officer


### Explorers:

* ISTP (5.4%) - The Craftsman / The Mechanic - Quiet and reserved, interested in how and why things work. Straightforward and honest people who prefer action to conversation, ISTPs perform well in utilitarian roles that require them to make use of tools. Common careers: Civil engineer, Economist, Pilot, Data communications analysis, Emergency room physician

* ISFP (8.8%)- The Composer/The Artist – Quiet, serious, sensitive and kind, avoids conflict. Warm and sensitive types who like to help people in tangible ways, ISFPs do well in roles that require them to be sympathetic and attentive. Common careers: Fashion designer, Physical therapist, Massage therapist, Landscape architect, Storekeeper

* ESTP (4.3%) - The Doer – Friendly, adaptable, action-oriented. focused on immediate results. Pragmatists who love excitement and excel in a crisis, ESTPs excel in high-stakes roles that require them to be resourceful.  Common careers: Detective, Banker, Investor, Entertainment agent, Sports coach
 
* ESFP (8.5%) - The Performer – People-oriented and fun-loving, they make things more fun for others by their enjoyment. Lively and playful people who value common sense, ESFPs gravitate toward roles that require them to be expressive and interact with others.  Common careers: Child welfare counselor, Primary care physician, Actor, Interior designer, Environmental scientist

## Hofstede survey on cultural dimensions

By studing expat workers work preformance in large multinational corporations, Hofstede was able to identify key cultural differences in the way people approach work.[^hofstede] 

[^hofstede]: Geert Hofstede, Gert Jan Hofstede, Michael Minkov, 2010. Cultures and Organizations: Software for the Mind, Third Edition. McGraw-Hill.

* Power distance: perceived ability to make a difference
* Individualism: individual vs collective: tendency to think in terms of I vs We.
* Gender balance: masculinity vs femininity
* Advoidance of Uncertianty: tolerance of risk
* Long term orientation: perception of urgency  
* Indulgences vs restraint: attitude towards acquired wealth

## Job appraisal

Performance Appraisal

[^mgmtstudy]: Management Study Guide, 2018. Performance Appraisal. https://www.managementstudyguide.com/performance-appraisal.htm
 
Performance Appraisal is the systematic evaluation of the performance of employees and to understand the abilities of a person for further growth and development. Performance appraisal is generally done in systematic ways which are as follows:

The supervisors measure the pay of employees and compare it with targets and plans.
The supervisor analyses the factors behind work performances of employees.
The employers are in position to guide the employees for a better performance.
Objectives of Performance Appraisal
Performance Appraisal can be done with following objectives in mind:

To maintain records in order to determine compensation packages, wage structure, salaries raises, etc.
To identify the strengths and weaknesses of employees to place right men on right job.
To maintain and assess the potential present in a person for further growth and development.
To provide a feedback to employees regarding their performance and related status.
To provide a feedback to employees regarding their performance and related status.
It serves as a basis for influencing working habits of the employees.
To review and retain the promotional and other training programmes.

### Advantages of Performance Appraisal

It is said that performance appraisal is an investment for the company which can be justified by following advantages:

1. **Promotion:** Performance Appraisal helps the supervisors to chalk out the promotion programmes for efficient employees. In this regards, inefficient workers can be dismissed or demoted in case.
2. **Compensation:** Performance Appraisal helps in chalking out compensation packages for employees. Merit rating is possible through performance appraisal. Performance Appraisal tries to give worth to a performance. Compensation packages which includes bonus, high salary rates, extra benefits, allowances and pre-requisites are dependent on performance appraisal. The criteria should be merit rather than seniority.
3. **Employees Development:** The systematic procedure of performance appraisal helps the supervisors to frame training policies and programmes. It helps to analyse strengths and weaknesses of employees so that new jobs can be designed for efficient employees. It also helps in framing future development programmes.
4. **Selection Validation:** Performance Appraisal helps the supervisors to understand the validity and importance of the selection procedure. The supervisors come to know the validity and thereby the strengths and weaknesses of selection procedure. Future changes in selection methods can be made in this regard.
5. **Communication:** For an organization, effective communication between employees and employers is very important. Through performance appraisal, communication can be sought for in the following ways:

    * Through performance appraisal, the employers can understand and accept skills of subordinates.
    * The subordinates can also understand and create a trust and confidence in superiors.
    * It also helps in maintaining cordial and congenial labour management relationship.
    * It develops the spirit of work and boosts the morale of employees.
	
> All the above factors ensure effective communication.

6. **Motivation:** Performance appraisal serves as a motivation tool. Through evaluating performance of employees, a person’s efficiency can be determined if the targets are achieved. This very well motivates a person for better job and helps him to improve his performance in the future.


## Goals of HR

* Good Employee retention
* Job performace appraisal
* Employee development
* Job-Employee fit: Right person for the job

# Operations Management








 