-# Emerging Technologies

# Business Intelligence and Data Analytics
 
# Cyptocurrencies

# Open Source Solutions

In 1983, Robert Stallman wrote the core concepts that would eventually become the GNU Manifesto as an means to initiate a movement committed to creating and distribution open and free software.[^stallman] The Free Software Foundation grew out of these developments and granted users the following four freedoms, many of which require access to the source code.https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html

[^stallman]: Stallman,1985. The GNU Manifesto. Available online at https://www.gnu.org/gnu/manifesto.html

* **Freedom 0:** The freedom to run the program, for any purpose.
* **Freedom 1:** The freedom to study how the program works, and adapt it to your needs. Access to the source code is a precondition for this.  Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
* **Freedom 2:** The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbor.
* **Freedom 3:** The freedom to improve the program, and release your improvements to the public, so that the whole community benefits. Access to the source code is a precondition for this.[^freesoftware]

[^freesoftware]: Free Software Foundation, Inc.,2018. What is free software? Available online at https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html

# Thailand 4.0

Thailand 4.0 is an economic model that aims to unlock the country from several economic challenges resulting from past economic development models which place emphasis on agriculture (Thailand 1.0), light industry (Thailand 2.0), and advanced industry (Thailand 3.0). These challenges include economic conditions that create 3 traps:

* **A middle income trap:** where opportunities for wealth accumulation is restricted.
* **An inequality trap:** where wealth is not acquired fairly based on gender, ethnical background and other socio-political issues.
* **An imbalanced trap:** where the gap between the rich and the poor widens especially based on geographic location and  urban vs rural settings.

The Thai government has committed itself to invest into several areas of innovation that would stimulate the economy, such as robotics/internet of things, agriculture/biotechnology, biofuels/biochemicals and smart electronics. The intention is to create the environment for transformation and resulting sea-changes in such areas as farming, business development, skilled labor and technological development. The four objectives of this strategy are listed below:[^thai4.0]

[^thai4commerce]: Thailand Ministry of Commerce, 2016. [Thailand 4.0 Infographic](http://www.thaitradeusa.com/home/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/infographic-TH4.0_en.jpg)

[^thai4.0]: Royal Thai Embassy, 2016. Thailand 4.0. Available online at http://thaiembdc.org/thailand-4-0-2/

1. **Economic Prosperity:** to create a value-based economy that is driven by innovation, technology and creativity. The model aims to increase Research and Development (“R&D”) expenditure to 4% of GDP, increase economic growth rate to full capacity rate of 5-6% within 5 years, and increase national income per capita from 5,470 USD in 2014 to 15,000 USD by 2032.

2. **Social Well-being:** to create a society that moves forward without leaving anyone behind (inclusive society) through realization of the full potential of all members of society. The goals are to reduce social disparity from 0.465 in 2013 to 0.36 in 2032, completely transform to social welfare system within 20 years and develop at least 20,000 households into “Smart Farmers” within 5 years.

3. **Raising Human Values:** to transform Thais into “Competent human beings in the 21sth Century” and “Thais 4.0 in the first world. Measures under Thailand 4.0 will raise Thailand HDI from 0.722 to 0.8 or the top 50 countries within 10 years, ensure that at least 5 Thai universities are ranked amongst the world’s top 100 higher education institution within 20 years.

4. **Environmental Protection:** to become a livable society that possesses an economic system capable of adjusting to climate change and low carbon society. The targets are to develop at least 10 cities into the world’s most livable cities, reduce terrorism risk, and increase the proportion  